[Music]
it's not just that Donald Trump is
saying in doing racist things he's also
implementing policies that are hurting
and impacting negatively communities of
color
I don't think Donald Trump is doing an
awful lot to appeal to african-american
voters of a policy that he's put forward
has been anti people of color
now we hear those lines all the time but
here are the facts since President Trump
took office black unemployment has hit
an historic low and currently sits at
about 6.7 percent and by the way he's
not satisfied with that he wants it a
lot lower but still pretty great the
number of African Americans employed is
up more than four percent and the most
stunning of all african-american wages
this is my favorite are up more than
nine percent here now in a truly special
debate I'm so happy about this Candice
Owens flex tip movement founder and
conservative commentator and Cornel West
professor of philosophy at Harvard
University and professor emeritus at
Princeton dr. West I also want to tell
you I really appreciate your coming on
the show your kind of you're an
old-style liberal I don't mean old and
old honey but you like debate in
conversation and I think that's just
awesome so thank you so much for joining
us tonight
and I want to begin with a simple
question dr. West are the president's
policies let's just focus now on his
economic policies are they helping the
african-american community in your view
I think that the statistics certainly
look good through a narrow lens so I
give him credit in that regard but we
have to keep in mind that on the one
hand you still have grotesque wealth
inequality you have job insecurity so
many people who are working or working
more than one job we know many people
who have withdrawn from the labor force
are not counting account it at all but I
think the problem is though my dear
sister is that the president has a
language that creates an atmosphere that
is so xenophobic against black for
Mexican Muslims he rarely wants to stay
in contact with their humanity so when
you look at the statistics that's one
thing but when you create an atmosphere
and an ambience of xenophobia it
reinforces the polarization and
therefore many black folk wouldn't even
be able to connect the statistics that
look good
with the language the atmosphere that
feels so bad and that cold-hearted
mean-spiritedness it's something that
cuts very very deep in the spirit of
people have you myself have you met him
dr. West
ever met the president no I've never
I've never had a conversation with my
right wing but I mean you know I've
called him a gangster and a proto
fashioned separation of power but he's a
human being he's a human being and I'm
saying this because look you and I don't
agree out a lot but actually really like
you I fear I think I just like the fact
that you're out there and you're
advocating I have no problem with it and
I wouldn't I don't I wouldn't call you
mean spirit we disagree but I think if
you actually were with the president you
might find that you could accomplish a
lot together and you could do a lot
together I really believe that he'll
work with pretty much anybody and that's
what I found in my experience so I'm
just throwing that out there Candice
mm-hmm they're there but there is this
tonality issue that that people seize on
with the president and they always go
back to Charlottesville they always go
back to this whole countries those are
the two things that really seize upon
the travel ban those three things
probably for some just wipe out any
other accomplishment your reaction well
look I think the president is doing
something different definitely his tone
is different because he tells the truth
and he doesn't pander to black America
he hasn't offered us hot sauce he's
offered us jobs that makes many people
uncomfortable because they're they're
from an era where race hustling as a
business they're used to telling black
Americans at their victims writing books
about victimhood and that is no longer
selling in America and I just wanted to
comment back on saying that xenophobia
is something that black Americans are
afraid of xenophobia means that you have
a fear mr. west of foreigners black
Americans are not foreigners in this
country we are a piece of the American
dream we've earned a piece of this
American Dream and we're getting tired
people telling us that we are somehow
separate of it I mean that's that's
really what I have to say we're doing
tremendous under this presidency there
was no Kansas that is offering anything
on the left to counter what Trump has
offered they're just offering more
rhetoric more fear-mongering and
unfortunately time is up on this
narrative we are ready to move on and
embrace our futures if I can come
straighter make first xenophobia in a
generic sense means the fear of other
and black for
have been other than slate Jim Crow Jane
crow and so forth so if you want to but
it's the other those who have been
otherwise those who have been
marginalized in this in but but but
think of the when you call my dear
sister Maxine Waters low IQ you said it
so fast if she took an IQ exam you would
find out that Maxine Waters had a very
low IQ and I son of a bitch you see the
president okay but what I want
I think the nasty language it's it's on
both sides I mean it's on if they call
them again sirs that rant traitor I mean
so but I just I do want to I want to get
to this the prevailing wisdom I think
dr. West you know highlighted this is
that the race relations have
deteriorated almost under this president
that's the thought that Obama was that
you know the great racial healer yet in
a new study by a pair of sociologists at
UPenn this is not some conservative
outlet they found that quote anti-black
prejudice declined by a statistically
insignificant degree between 2012 and
but then after 2016 it took a sharp dive
there was also a general fall in
anti-hispanic prejudice too so professor
west to what do you attribute these
findings so prejudice is on the
downswing
not on the upswing at least in these
first few years of trump well based on
this this particular study I'd have to
examine how they gather their evidence
and so forth but anti-jewish attacks
anti-muslim attacks anti-mexican attacks
and not just anti black attacks but also
the police departments the militarizing
the police departments withdrawal of the
investigations when police do in fact
shoot fellow citizens whatever color
they are but disproportionately
chocolate-brown oh absolutely
continuities right that I do want to
share this this was a moment that I
think again going back to what Candis
has worked on and spoken about and what
dr. West I think you two could actually
be happy about together happen at the
White House I think was last month and
it was a it was an event commemorating
the first-step Act let's watch and I
really think you for signing a deal well
y'all passed this I could have felt them
to float I'm an example of a woman who
has been given a second chance in life
and it's an experience that I know
forget two months ago I was in it's in a
prison sale and I'm in the White House
that's that's continued to make America
great again
now dr. West I mean I don't think they
were feeling xenophobia or
mean-spiritedness I think they actually
found a president who was willing to
work with people who really didn't even
like him and didn't think he was
probably gonna accomplish much and it
got almost no coverage we played it on
our show maybe a few other places but
didn't get any coverage what's your
reaction to the seeing that no I I think
that that's a very important attempt to
zero in on this vicious policy in the
last 40 years of mass incarceration
punitive attitudes toward toward those
engaged in various kinds of crimes I've
been blessed to teach in prisons for 37
years the wrong way to step program I
was just an ortho it's something that
has an impact on the ground and I'd give
the president credit for that it's not
as if he has nothing to offer it's just
that the dominant orientation is still
tied to what I'm critical level of both
parties because our identity politics
for me is milquetoast
neoliberal politics that don't talk
about corporate power don't talk about
poverty and talk about militarism but
the Republicans still strike me as so
cold-hearted mean-spirited and they're
still tied to corporate power in Wall
Street and won't hit poverty head-on but
when it comes to prison when it comes to
statistics I get the president credit
for that okay it's still small relative
to what I'm looking for I don't
I see it and neither both parties other
than brother Bernie Sanders but that's
another dialogue good you know that
right but I have to again I have to go
back to this idea of race relations
under Obama which is I almost fell out
of my chair in the CNN story that came
out in October of 2016 they got worse
54% of Americans said they got worse
only 16% said they got better this was
at the end of the Obama administration
so as this Cornel West said you know yet
Ferguson you had Freddie gray in
Baltimore you had all this stuff
bursting out on the streets of America
with the first african-american
president in the White House and that
healing didn't seem to take place right
look at that point I was on the left so
when Barack Obama what first went into
office I was a liberal and I changed my
mind do do exactly what you're saying he
drove this nation apart President Trump
is bringing this nation together because
what he is talking about is patriotism
patriotism knows no sex it knows no
color it knows no Creed the liberal
media can ignore all the work that he's
doing in black America all they want
every statistic in the world shows you
right now the black support for Donald
Trump has doubled and that is meaningful
and I'm telling you that by 2020 he is
going to be the first president to crack
the black vote to the detriment of the
Democrats hey professor West I want it I
want it do you still do work in the
prisons do you still do it absolutely
can I come with you can I come with you
John what here you can come anytime you
like we gonna keep track of the humanity
and rich imagination and intelligence of
our brothers and sisters who are
incarcerated to make sure they have a
better chance to keep and make sure that
they can unleash their potential but I
say to sister Candace that I like her
independence of mind I think she's wrong
my fight for her right to be wrong in
that regard but I wish that she would
have made rest absolutely but but I
would have wished that you would have
moved further to the left because when
you have a black lives movement under a
black president is not going to be a
matter of then moving to the right
socialism has already been tried in our
community it's been tried via welfare
policies and has completely crippled the
black community that's completely all
the black family via the welfare laws
you know that so I had to creep although
socialism empower
mr. West I appreciate your time but you
know black liberals go conservative but
black conservatives never go liberal
there's a reason for that and I wouldn't
miss item I would I would just black
people are complicated black people are
complicated we go back and forth but I
wish we had more black leftist alright
guys we got to go this is a fascinating
conversation we have to have you both
back thank you very much for being here